Ghumarwin is a town and a municipal council, near the town of Bilaspur in Bilaspur district in the North Indian State of Himachal Pradesh and is the second largest town of the entire district. The town is an anchor point for commuters between Bilaspur and Hamirpur and other parts of the state. Situated primarily between the Hills of Lower Central Himalayas, Ghumarwin is situated at an average elevation of 700 metres or about 2300 ft. above sea level. It is one of the biggest commercial centres of Bilaspur District and one can find all kinds of shops, stores, services etc. here. 
It has become a major cultural and educational hub of Bilaspur and is a rapidly emerging city located on a sharp small rivulet Seer Khud's bank in a small valley which diverts towards Bilaspur city. The town celebrates a famous four-day fair at the dawn of summer in first week of April which is one of its chief tourism attractions. The town is also a tehsil and home to rapidly expanding entrepreneurship along with the tehsildar office and court. Spread in all four directions the town is growing rapidly National Highway 103 passes through  Ghumarwin, State Highway 19 Terminates here connecting it with Northern Rural regions of the district. It is also famous for its variety of sweet preparations and local cuisines which people come to enjoy from far and wide.  
Situated on Shimla-Kangra Road formerly NH 88 (Now NH 88 A) it is well connected to rest of neighbouring states. HRTC, CTU, Haryana Roadways, Uttarakhand Roadways and Punjab Roadways buses and taxis operate to nearly all possible routes on each sides. Ghumarwin is situated at a distance of 105 km from the state capital Shimla, 22 km from Bilaspur, the district Headquarter of Bilaspur. HRTC Volvo and Ordinary Buses also operates to the National Capital. In February 2019.  
Despite of lying in the lower Himalayan region Nihari, a suburb of Ghumarwin experienced snowfall after 4 decades. In coming future is going to be connected by four lane in all directions. The Kiratpur-Nerchowk Expressway four lane project will come near Bhager which is 7 km away. Ghumarwin is also connected to Kuthera 12 km. away which is another fast developing sub center by two lane highway.