Linda Andersen (died January 18, 2003) was the victim of premeditated murder by her two teenage daughters on January 18, 2003, in Mississauga, Ontario. Since both daughters were under the age of 18 at the time of the murder, their identities are protected under the Youth Criminal Justice Act, a Canadian law. The names Linda Anderson, as well as sisters Sandra and Elizabeth (Beth) Andersen, are aliases created by journalist Bob Mitchell, in an effort to protect the girl's identities in the book he wrote about their mother's murder. The book is The Class Project: How to Kill a Mother: The True Story of Canada's Infamous Bathtub Girls. The sisters are also commonly referred to as the "Bathtub Girls" due to them drowning their mother in a bathtub. 
The girls planned the murder with a few of their schoolmates, with the intention of making it look like an accident. On January 18, 2003, Linda Andersen drank as usual, but the daughters plied Tylenol 3 pills in her drinks, to slow her heart rate. When she got into the bathtub, one of the sisters held her head underwater until she stopped convulsing and twitching. They crafted an alibi that they were out with friends at a restaurant while their mom was at home preparing her bath. They called 9-1-1 when they got home at 10:30 p.m. and said that their mother had died in their absence. For almost a year, the death was considered accidental drowning secondary to alcohol intoxication. Andersen's three children received a total of around $200,000 in insurance money due to their mother's death. 
Eleven months after the murder, a young male came forward to the police, informing them that one of the sisters said that the girls drowned their mother. Thus, an investigation began that included testimony gained when the young man was wired for audio and video, assessment of text messages and internet searches on a computer they owned, and interviews of their friends. Sandra and Beth were arrested on January 21, 2004. In late 2005, they went to trial and were convicted of first degree murder. In June 2006, they were sentenced to 10 years, six years of incarceration and four years of community supervision, the maximum sentence for juvenilles.